### Weather - Thời tiết

**Types of rain**

There are different types of rain depending on seasons. In spring, when it rains in very small drop, it is a **drizzle**. In summer, rain lasts for a short period of time, which is called **shower**. When it is raining a lot, we can say "it is **pouring**". Heavy rain increases **precipitation** and couses floods. On the contrary, a **drought** is a long period without rain.

- drizzle (n, v) /ˈdrɪzəl/: mưa phùn

- shower (n, v) /ˈʃaʊər/: mưa rào

- pouring / pour (n, v) /pɔːr/, /ˈpɔːrɪŋ/: mưa nặng hạt

- precipitation (n) /prɪˌsɪpɪˈteɪʃən/: lượng mưa

- cause = lead to (v) /kɔːz/, /liːd tuː/: gây ra

- drought (n) /draʊt/: hạn hán

**Weather in the UK**

The UK has very **unpredictable** weather. In the UK the weather from one day to the next can be completely different. The weather can change from being rainy to sunny the next day, or from strong wind and **gales** in the morning to snow in the afternoon. Heavy snow can block the road at night.

- unpredictable = changeable (a) /ˌʌnprɪˈdɪktəb(ə)l/, /ˈtʃeɪndʒəbl/: không thể dự đoán, thay đổi bất ngờ

- gale (n) /ɡeɪl/: gió mạnh

- breeze (n) /briːz/: gió thoảng

- block the road (v) /blɒk ðə roʊd/ (BrE /blɒk ðə rəʊd/, AmE /blɑːk ðə roʊd/): cản trở trên đường

**Weather in Japan**

The wind **affects** Japanese weather a lot. In summer, it blows from Pacific Ocean, causing hot and **humid** weather. In winter, however, the winds from Serberia are very cold, and it snows heavily in the mountains. Between June and mid-July, there is a **spell** of wet weather. After that, there is less heavy rain, but the air is still humid. Autumn, however, a drier and pleasant.

- affect/affected (v, a): ảnh hưởng, bị ảnh hưởng, không tự nhiên

- humid/humidity (a, n): ẩm thấp, độ ẩm

- spell (n): đợt, khoảng thời gian

